# microservices-application
- Project has two independent services - Customer Service and Department Service.
- It has an API Gateway repo - acts as a reverse proxy to accept all application programming interface (API) calls, aggregate the various services required to fulfill them,and return the appropriate result. API Gataway has also fallback url which will call incase any service is down.
- It has Service Registry repo - It has  Eureka Server which is an application that holds the information about all client-service applications. Every Micro service will register into the Eureka server and Eureka server knows all the client applications running on each port and IP address. Eureka Server is also known as Discovery Server.
- HystrixDashboard repo -The Hystrix Dashboard displays the health of each circuit breaker in an efficient manner.
- CloudConfigServer - Central configuration server provides configurations (properties) to each micro service connected. Spring Cloud Config Server can be used as a central cloud config server by integrating to several environments. It uses configuration from other github repo (config-server).
- Zipkin is a distributed tracing system. It helps gather timing data needed to troubleshoot latency problems in service architectures. Features include both the collection and lookup of this data.If you have a trace ID in a log file, you can jump directly to it. Otherwise, you can query based on attributes such as service, operation name, tags and duration. Some interesting data will be summarized for you, such as the percentage of time spent in a service, and whether or not operations failed.
